Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Reliability Engineering and System Safety 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/ress 
Remaining useful life estimation in prognostics using deep convolution 
neural networks 
Xiang Li a , ∗ , Qian Ding b , Jian-Qiao Sun c 
a College of Sciences, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110819, China 
b Department of Mechanics, Tianjin University, Tianjin 300072, China 
c School of Engineering, University of California, Merced, CA 95343, USA 
a r t i c l e i n f o 
Keywords: 
Prognostics and health management 
Remaining useful life 
Deep learning 
Convolution neural network 
a b s t r a c t 
Traditionally, system prognostics and health management (PHM) depends on suﬃcient prior knowledge of crit- 
ical components degradation process in order to predict the remaining useful life (RUL). However, the accurate 
physical or expert models are not available in most cases. This paper proposes a new data-driven approach for 
prognostics using deep convolution neural networks (DCNN). Time window approach is employed for sample 
preparation in order for better feature extraction by DCNN. Raw collected data with normalization are directly 
used as inputs to the proposed network, and no prior expertise on prognostics and signal processing is required, 
that facilitates the application of the proposed method. In order to show the eﬀectiveness of the proposed ap- 
proach, experiments on the popular C-MAPSS dataset for aero-engine unit prognostics are carried out. High 
prognostic accuracy on the RUL estimation is achieved. The superiority of the proposed method is demonstrated 
by comparisons with other popular approaches and the state-of-the-art results on the same dataset. The results 
of this study suggest that the proposed data-driven prognostic method oﬀers a new and promising approach. 
©2017  Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. 
1. Introduction 
Engineering maintenance and prognostics are very crucial in many 
industry areas such as aerospace, manufacturing, automotive, heavy in- 
dustry and so forth. While traditional strategies such as breakdown cor- 
rective maintenance and scheduled preventive maintenance [1] are be- 
coming less capable of meeting the increasing industrial demand of ef- 
ﬁciency and reliability, intelligent prognostic and health management 
(PHM) technologies which is also known as condition-based mainte- 
nance (CBM), are showing promising abilities for application in indus- 
tries [2] . The goals of PHM include maximizing the operational avail- 
ability, reduction of maintenance costs and improvement of system reli- 
ability and safety by monitoring the facility conditions. Remaining use- 
ful life (RUL) can be estimated based on history trajectory data, that is 
very important for improving maintenance schedules to avoid engineer- 
ing failures and save the resultant costs [3] . This paper proposes a novel 
deep learning method for RUL estimation. 
Generally, the existing methods for PHM can be grouped into 
three main categories, i.e. model-based approaches [4] , data-driven ap- 
proaches [5] and hybrid approaches [6] . While model-based approaches 
tend to be more accurate if the complex system degradation is modeled 
precisely [7] , they require extensive prior knowledge about physical sys- 
∗ Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: xiangli@mail.neu.edu.cn (X. Li). 
tems which is usually unavailable in practice, e.g. aircraft engines. Pop- 
ular model-based approaches include particle ﬁlter [8] , Eyring model 
[9] , Weibull distribution [10] etc . On the other hand, the data-driven 
approaches are able to model the degradation characteristics based on 
historical sensor data. The underlying correlations and causalities in the 
collected sensor data can be revealed, and the corresponding system in- 
formation such as RUL can be inferred. Data-driven approaches usually 
require suﬃcient historical data for training models. Since they do not 
rely on much prior expertise on prognostics and are easy to be gener- 
alized, many data-driven algorithms have been proposed in the recent 
years and good prognostic results have been achieved, including arti- 
ﬁcial neural network (NN) [11] , support vector machine (SVM) [12] , 
hidden Markov models [13] etc . By combining model-based and data- 
driven approaches, the hybrid approaches aim to utilize the advantages 
of both the approaches and avoid the disadvantages [14] . However, it 
still remains very challenging to develop an eﬀective hybrid approach, 
especially for the combination of the physical models and the recently 
developed data-driven technologies such as deep learning. Therefore, a 
novel data-driven approach is proposed in this study 
In the past years, discovering the relationship between the monitored 
system data and the corresponding RUL has been receiving increasing at- 
tention in data-driven prognostics. A number of machine learning tech- 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2017.11.021 
Received 29 June 2017; Received in revised form 16 October 2017; Accepted 26 November 2017 
Available online 2 December 2017 
0951-8320/©2017  Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved. 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
niques, especially neural network-based approaches, have been devel- 
oped to learn the mapping from the collected feature data to the asso- 
ciated RUL. The advantage of applying neural networks on prognostic 
and health management lies in that highly nonlinear, complex, multi- 
dimensional system can be well modeled without prior expertise on the 
system physical behavior. Diﬀerent kinds of system data, such as raw 
sensor readings, can be directly used as model inputs. While the conﬁ- 
dence limits for the RUL predictions can not be naturally provided [15] , 
the neural network-based approaches are promising on prognostic prob- 
lems. 
Huang et al. [16] utilized the traditional multi-layer perceptron 
(MLP) approach for modeling the remaining useful life of the laboratory- 
tested bearings, and reported the prediction results were superior to 
the reliability-based approaches. Tian [17] developed an artiﬁcial neu- 
ral network (ANN) method for estimating the RUL of equipment. The 
ANN model takes the age and multiple condition monitoring measure- 
ment values at the present and previous inspection points as the inputs, 
and the equipment life percentage as the output. Fink and colleagues 
[18] proposed a multi-layer neural network with multi-valued neurons 
approach to deal with the reliability and degradation time series predic- 
tion problem, and carried out a case study on predicting the degradation 
of a railway turnout system. To overcome the drawback that the con- 
ﬁdence limits of RUL estimation can not be directly obtained with the 
NN-based methods in general, Khawaja and colleagues [19] introduced 
a conﬁdence prediction neural network approach with a conﬁdence dis- 
tribution node. In addition, fuzzy logic has been integrated into MLP 
networks to capture more information for PHM by many researchers 
[20] . Malhi et al. [21] proposed a competitive learning-based approach 
to long-term prognostics of machine health status using recurrent neural 
networks (RNN). Vibration signals from a defect-seeded rolling bearing 
are pre-processed with the continuous wavelet transform and used as 
the model inputs. As an improvement of the traditional RNN, a long 
short term memory (LSTM) based neural network scheme was proposed 
by Yuan et al. [22] for RUL estimation of aero-engines in the cases of 
complicated operations, hybrid faults and strong noises. LSTM was also 
utilized by Zhao et al. [23] for a tool wear health monitoring task. 
Recently, deep learning network is emerging as a highly eﬀective 
network structure for pattern recognition, that holds the potential to 
improve performance in the current intelligent prognostics. Deep learn- 
ing is characterized by the deep network architecture where multiple 
layers are stacked in the network to fully capture the representative in- 
formation from raw input data [24] . High-level abstractions of data can 
be modeled well with the help of the complex deep structures, leading to 
more eﬃcient feature extraction compared with the shallow networks. 
Deep learning methods have gained great interests and achieved signif- 
icant results in many ﬁelds, including image recognition [25] , speech 
recognition [26] etc . Since the raw data obtained from machinery health 
monitoring share similar high dimensionality with those in image pro- 
cessing researches, deep learning architecture has great potential in 
PHM and RUL estimation. 
Ren et al. [27] proposed an integrated deep learning approach for 
multi-bearing remaining useful life collaborative prediction by combin- 
ing both time domain and frequency domain features. Numerical ex- 
periments on a real dataset show the eﬀectiveness and superiority of 
the proposed approach. A new restricted Boltzmann machine (RBM) 
for representation learning was proposed by Liao et al. [28] to predict 
RUL of machines, where a new regularization term and unsupervised 
self-organizing map algorithm are used. Zhang et al. [29] proposed a 
multi-objective deep belief networks (DBN) ensemble method, where an 
evolutionary algorithm is integrated with the traditional DBN training 
technique to evolve multiple DBNs simultaneously subject to accuracy 
and diversity. State-of-the-art prognostic performance was achieved on 
the popular benchmarking problem, i.e. NASA ’s turbofan engine degra- 
dation problem [30] . 
Within the deep learning architecture, convolution neural networks 
(CNNs), that are speciﬁcally designed for variable and complex signals, 
are further utilized in this study. CNNs have shown remarkable suc- 
cess in various applications in the past few years. CNN was ﬁrst pro- 
posed by LeCun et al. for image processing. Its ability to maintain data 
information regardless of scale, shift and distortion invariance is pre- 
sented. A large number of researches on computer vision, speech pro- 
cessing etc . have beneﬁted from CNN ’s characteristics of local receptive 
ﬁelds, shared weights and spatial sub-sampling. Babu et al. [31] built a 
2-dimensional (2D) deep convolution neural network to predict the RUL 
of system based on normalized variate time series from sensor signals, 
where one dimension of the 2D input is the number of sensors. Average 
pooling is adopted in their work and a linear regression layer is placed 
on the top layer. While deep CNN structure has shown great ability on 
feature extraction, very limited research can be found on its applications 
on machinery remaining useful life prediction problems. In this study, 
the CNN structure is employed to extract the local data features through 
the deep learning network for better prognostics. 
A new deep learning architecture for RUL estimation in prognostics is 
proposed in this paper. Time window approach is employed for sample 
preparation in order for better feature extraction by CNN. Raw sensor 
measurements with normalization are directly used as model inputs to 
the proposed network, and no prior expertise on prognostics and sig- 
nal processing is required, that facilitates the industrial application of 
the proposed method. High-level abstract features can be successfully 
extracted by the deep CNN architecture, and the associated RUL value 
can be estimated based on the learned representations. Using time win- 
dow, data normalization and deep CNN structure, the proposed method 
is expected to obtain higher prognostic accuracy compared with the tra- 
ditional machine learning methods. Comprehensive analysis of the pro- 
posed approach and comparisons with existing methods are presented 
in this study. 
In the recent years, development of modern aeronautical technol- 
ogy leads to a complex aircraft system, where high reliability, quality 
and safety are required in very harsh environment. The engine is the key 
component of the aircraft and there is always a pressing need to develop 
new approaches to better evaluate the engine performance degradation 
and estimate the remaining useful life [32] . In this paper, the RUL for 
aero-engines is estimated as a case study and the popular publicly avail- 
able NASA C-MAPSS dataset [30] is used to validate the eﬀectiveness of 
the proposed method. Comparisons with the state-of-the-art results on 
the same dataset show the superiority of the proposed network. 
This paper starts with the description of the proposed deep learning 
structure in Section 2 , along with brief introductions of CNN. The pro- 
posed method is experimentally validated using the C-MAPSS dataset in 
Section 3 . The eﬀectiveness and superiority of the method are demon- 
strated by comparisons with other popular methods. We close the paper 
with conclusions in Section 4 . 
2. Proposed deep learning architecture 
In this section, the proposed deep learning architecture for prognos- 
tics is presented, as well as its key components, i.e. convolution neural 
networks, and dropout technique. 
2.1. Convolutional neural network 
Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) were ﬁrst proposed by LeCun 
for image processing, which has two characteristics, i.e. spatially shared 
weights and spatial pooling. CNNs have achieved signiﬁcant success in 
many research and industry ﬁelds including computer vision [25] , natu- 
ral language processing, speech recognition [33] and so forth. The con- 
volutional layers convolve multiple ﬁlters with raw input data and gen- 
erate features, and the following pooling layers extract the most signiﬁ- 
cant local features afterwards. The input data are usually 2-dimensional 
(2D) data for CNNs to learn abstract spatial features by alternating and 
stacking convolutional kernels and pooling operation. 
2 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Fig. 1. Illustration for 1D CNN operation. 
In this study, the input data is prepared in 2D format where one di- 
mension is the feature number and the other is the time sequence of each 
feature (The details of data preparation will be presented in Section 3.1 ). 
However, considering the collected machinery features are from diﬀer- 
ent sensors in this prognostic problem, the relationship between the spa- 
tially neighboring features in the data sample is not remarkable. There- 
fore, while the input and the corresponding feature maps have 2 dimen- 
sions, the convolution ﬁlters in the proposed network are 1-dimensional 
(1D) in practice. In the following, the 1D CNN is brieﬂy introduced and 
[31,34,35] can be referred to for 2D CNN. 
The input 1-dimensional sequential data is assumed to be 𝐱 = 
[ 𝑥 1 , 𝑥 2 , … , 𝑥 𝑁 ] where N denotes the length of the sequence. The con- 
volution operation in the convolutional layer can be deﬁned as a multi- 
ply operation between a ﬁlter kernel w , 𝐰 ∈𝑅 𝐹 𝐿 , and a concatenation 
vector representation 𝐱 𝑖 ∶ 𝑖 + 𝐹 𝐿 −1 , which can be expressed as, 
𝐱 𝑖 ∶ 𝑖 + 𝐹 𝐿 −1 = 𝑥 𝑖 ⊕𝑥 𝑖 +1 ⊕⋅⋅⋅ ⊕𝑥 𝑖 + 𝐹 𝐿 −1 , (1) 
where 𝑥 𝑖 ∶ 𝑖 + 𝐹 𝐿 −1 represents a window of F L length sequential signal start- 
ing from the i -th point, and ⊕concatenates each data samples into a 
longer embedding. The ﬁnal convolution operation is deﬁned as, 
𝑧 𝑖 = 𝜑 ( 𝐰 𝑇 𝐱 𝑖 ∶ 𝑖 + 𝐹 𝐿 −1 + 𝑏 ) , (2) 
where ∗ T denotes the transpose of a matrix ∗ , and b and 𝜑 represent the 
bias term and non-linear activation function, respectively. The output 
z i can be considered as the learned feature of the ﬁlter kernel w on the 
corresponding subsequence 𝐱 𝑖 ∶ 𝑖 + 𝐹 𝐿 −1 . By sliding the ﬁlter window from 
the ﬁrst point to the last point in the sample data, the feature map of 
the j -th ﬁlter can be obtained, which is denoted as, 
𝐳 𝑗 = [ 𝑧 1 
𝑗 , 𝑧 2 
𝑗 , … , 𝑧 𝑁− 𝐹 𝐿 +1 
𝑗 ] , (3) 
where j is the j -th ﬁlter kernel. In CNNs, multiple ﬁlter kernels can be 
applied in the convolution layer with diﬀerent ﬁlter length F L . The eﬀect 
of ﬁlter number F N and length on the network performance will be pre- 
sented in Section 3.2 . The framework for 1D CNN operation is displayed 
in Fig. 1 . 
In practical applications, the determinations of the two parameters 
F N and F L depend on the speciﬁc task. Based on the current understand- 
ing in the literature [25,31,35] , larger ﬁlter size and number generally 
lead to higher prediction accuracy. However, the computational burden 
also becomes heavier. A tradeoﬀ has to be made in real case studies. 
Therefore, regarding the fault diagnosis study, medium values of the 
two parameters are preferred, and 𝐹 𝑁 = 10 and 𝐹 𝐿 = 10 are used as the 
default values. 
Usually, a pooling layer is applied to the feature maps generated by 
the convolutional layer [31] . On the one hand, the pooling is able to 
extract the most signiﬁcant local information in each feature map. On 
the other hand, the feature dimensionality, i.e. the number of model 
parameters, can be remarkably reduced by this operation. Therefore, 
pooling is well suited for very high-dimensional problems such as image 
processing. However, while computing eﬃciency can be improved by 
this operation, noticeable useful information is ﬁltered to some extent. 
Hence, despite the popular employment of pooling in convolution neural 
network, pooling is not suggested in this prognostic problem where the 
raw feature dimension is comparatively low. 
2.2. Dropout 
Dropout is a technique that can help to reduce data overﬁtting when 
training a neural network especially with a small training dataset [36] . 
Training data overﬁtting generally results in excellent network perfor- 
mance on the training dataset and poor performance on the testing 
dataset. Dropout provides an easy and eﬀective way to solve this prob- 
lem. In this study, the dropout technique is applied on the proposed 
network to prevent complex co-adaptations on the training data and 
avoid the extraction of the same features repeatedly. 
In practice, dropout can be realized by setting the activated outputs 
of some hidden neurons to zero so that the neurons are not included in 
the forward propagation training process. However, dropout is turned 
oﬀ in the testing process, that indicates all the hidden neurons are in- 
volved during testing. In this way, the robustness of the network is en- 
hanced. Dropout can be also considered as a simple approach for model 
ensemble within the network, that helps to improve the feature extrac- 
tion capability of the network. 
2.3. Proposed network structure 
Deep neural networks are able to adaptively capture the represen- 
tation information from raw input signals through multiple non-linear 
transformations and approximate complex non-linear functions, and are 
used as the main architecture in this study. In general, the proposed deep 
learning method consists of two sub-structures, i.e. multiple convolution 
neural networks and fully-connected layer for regression. Fig. 2 shows 
the architecture of the proposed method for RUL estimation. 
First, the input data sample is prepared in 2-dimensional (2D) for- 
mat, that facilitates the application of convolution operation. The di- 
mension of the input is N tw ×N ft , where N tw denotes the time sequence 
dimension and N ft is the number of selected features. The raw features 
are usually obtained from multiple sensor measurements. The details of 
the data preparation will be presented in Section 3.1 . 
Next, 4 convolution layers are stacked in the network for feature 
extraction. The 4 layers have the same conﬁguration that F N ﬁlters are 
used and the ﬁlter size is F L ×1. Zeros-padding operation is implemented 
to keep the feature map dimension unchanged [37] . So far, the obtained 
output is F N feature maps whose dimension is N tw ×N ft that is the same 
with the original input sample. We use another convolution layer with 
1 ﬁlter to combine the previous feature maps to be a unique one. The 
ﬁlter size is 3 ×1. In this way, the high-level representation for each raw 
feature is obtained. 
Afterwards, the 2-dimensional feature map is ﬂattened and con- 
nected with a fully-connected layer. Note that dropout technique is used 
on the last feature map, i.e. the ﬂattened layer, to relieve overﬁtting. Fi- 
nally, one neuron is attached at the end of the proposed network for 
RUL estimation. 
All the layers use tanh as the activation functions, and Xavier normal 
initializer is employed for the weight initializations [38] . To further im- 
prove the prognostic performance, a ﬁne-tuning process using the back- 
propagation (BP) algorithm is applied [39] , where the parameters of the 
proposed model are updated to minimize the training error. The Adam 
algorithm [40] is employed for optimization. 
3 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
c
Fig. 2. Proposed deep learning architecture for RUL estimation. 
It should be pointed out that, while 2D convolution neural network is 
used for feature extraction, the convolution operation is actually carried 
out in 1 dimension, i.e. the time sequence dimension for each feature. 
Therefore, at ﬁrst, the multiple stacked convolution layers aim to learn 
the high-level representations for each raw feature respectively, and the 
fully-connected layer uses all the learned representations of the features 
for the ﬁnal regression. Comparing with most existing deep CNN meth- 
ods on prognostics which try to learn the spatial relationships of diﬀer- 
ent features at the beginning and further extract information from the 
learned abstract representation with many layers, the proposed method 
is more suitable for the extraction of features from diﬀerent sensor mea- 
surements. 
3. Experimental study 
3.1. Experimental setup 
3.1.1. C-MAPSS Dataset 
In this paper, the proposed method is evaluated on a prognostic 
benchmarking problem, i.e. NASA ’s turbofan engine degradation prob- 
lem [30,41] . This popular dataset contains simulated data produced 
by a model-based simulation program, i.e. Commercial Modular Aero- 
Propulsion System Simulation (C-MAPSS), which was developed by 
NASA. The C-MAPSS dataset includes 4 sub-datasets that are composed 
of multi-variate temporal data obtained from 21 sensors. Each sub- 
dataset contains one training set and one test set. The training datasets 
include run-to-failure sensor records of multiple aero-engines collected 
under diﬀerent operational conditions and fault modes. Each engine unit 
starts with diﬀerent degrees of initial wear and manufacturing variation 
that is unknown and considered to be healthy. As time progresses, the 
engine units begin to degrade until they reach the system failures, i.e. 
the last data entry corresponds to the time cycle that the engine unit is 
declared unhealthy. On the other hand, the sensor records in the testing 
datasets terminate at some time before system failure, and the goal of 
this task is to estimate the remaining useful life of each engine in the 
test dataset. For veriﬁcation, the actual RUL value for the testing engine 
units are also provided. In this study, a comprehensive evaluation of 
the proposed method is carried out on all the four sub-datasets. The de- 
tailed information of the C-MAPSS dataset is presented in Table 1 , and 
the four sub-datasets are denoted as FD001, FD002, FD003 and FD004 
respectively. 
In the training process, all the available engine measurement data 
points are used as the training samples, and each data point is associated 
with its RUL label as the target. A piecewise linear degradation model 
[5] is used to obtain the RUL label with respect to each training sample. 
During testing, the one data point corresponding with the last recorded 
cycle for each engine unit is generally used as the testing sample. The 
actual RUL of the testing samples are provided in the dataset. 
Table 1 
Information of the C-MAPSS dataset. 
C-MAPSS 
Dataset FD001 FD002 FD003 FD004 
Engine units for training 100 260 100 249 
Engine units for testing 100 259 100 248 
Operating conditions 1 6 1 6 
Fault modes 1 1 2 2 
Training samples (default) 17,731 48,819 21,820 57522 
Testing samples 100 259 100 248 
3.1.2. Data pre-processing 
The multi-variate temporal data in the C-MAPSS dataset contains 
engine unit measurements from 21 sensors [30] . However, some sensor 
readings have constant outputs in the engine ’s lifetime and they do not 
provide valuable information for RUL estimation. Therefore, 14 sensor 
measurements out of the total 21 sensors are used as the raw input fea- 
tures as did in the literature [5,29] , whose indices are 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 17, 20 and 21. 
For each of the 4 sub-datasets in C-MAPSS, the collected measure- 
ment data from each sensor are normalized to be within the range of 
[−1 , 1] using the min-max normalization method, 
𝑥 𝑖,𝑗 
𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚 = 
2( 𝑥 𝑖,𝑗 − 𝑥 𝑗 
min ) 
𝑥 𝑗 
max − 𝑥 𝑗 
min 
− 1 , ∀𝑖, 𝑗, (4) 
where x i, j denotes the original i -th data point of the j -th sensor, and 𝑥 𝑖,𝑗 
𝑛𝑜𝑟𝑚 
is the normalized value of x i, j . 𝑥 𝑗 
max and 𝑥 𝑗 
min denote the maximum and 
minimum values of the original measurement data from the j -th sensor, 
respectively. 
Diﬀerent from common regression problems, the desired output 
value of the input data is diﬃcult to determine for a remaining useful 
life prediction problem. That is because in many industrial applications, 
it is impossible to evaluate the precise health condition and estimate the 
RUL of the system at each time step without an accurate physics-based 
model [29] . For this popular dataset, a piece-wise linear degradation 
model has been validated to be suitable and eﬀective [42] . In general, 
the engine unit works normally in the early age and degrades linearly 
afterwards. It is assumed to have a constant RUL label in the initial pe- 
riod. Following the recent researches in the literature [2,5,42] , R early 
which is a constant RUL value, is used as the target labels for the data 
points in the early period. It should be noted that R early has noticeable 
eﬀect on the prognostic performance on the dataset. By comparing with 
existing related works, we demonstrate the eﬀectiveness of the proposed 
method with suitable R early in the following Section 3.2 . 
4 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Fig. 3. Illustration of one training sample with 14 selected features within a time window 
of length 30. 
3.1.3. Time window processing 
In the multi-variate time series-based problems such as RUL estima- 
tion, more information can be generally obtained from the temporal 
sequence data compared with the multi-variate data point sampled at 
a single time step. Time sequence processing has a large potential for 
better prediction performance. In this paper, a time window is adopted 
for the data preparation to use the multi-variate temporal information. 
Let N tw denote the size of the time window. At each time step, all the 
past sensor data within the time window are collected to form a high- 
dimensional feature vector, and used as the inputs for the network. 
Fig. 3 shows one normalized data sample from the 14 selected sen- 
sors within a time window of size 30 with respect to a single engine 
unit in the training sub-dataset FD001. The shape of the data sample 
corresponds with the input size of the proposed network, as presented 
in Fig. 2 . The eﬀect of time window on the network performance will 
be discussed in Section 3.2.3 . 
3.1.4. Performance metrics 
In this study, 2 metrics have been used for evaluating the perfor- 
mance of the proposed prognostic method, i.e. scoring function and root 
mean square error. 
The scoring function used in this study has been proposed by many 
researchers [2,43,44] and also employed by the International Confer- 
ence on Prognostics and Health Management Data Challenge. The func- 
tion is illustrated in Eq. (5) . 
𝑠 = 
𝑁 ∑
𝑖 =1 
𝑠 𝑖 , 
𝑠 𝑖 = 
⎧ 
⎪ 
⎨ 
⎪ 
⎩ 
e − 𝑑 𝑖 
13 − 1 , for 𝑑 𝑖 < 0 , 
e 
𝑑 𝑖 
10 − 1 , for 𝑑 𝑖 ≥ 0 , 
(5) 
where s denotes the score and N is the total number of testing data sam- 
ples. 𝑑 𝑖 = 𝑅𝑈 𝐿 
′
𝑖 − 𝑅𝑈 𝐿 𝑖 , that is the error between the estimated RUL 
Fig. 4. Comparison between the scoring function and RMSE with respect to diﬀerent error 
values. 
value and the actual RUL value for the i -th testing data sample. The scor- 
ing function penalizes late prediction more than early prediction, that 
is because late prediction usually leads to more severe consequences in 
many ﬁelds such as aerospace industries. 
Another popular metric to evaluate the eﬀectiveness of the proposed 
method is Root Mean Square Error (RMSE). The formulation of RMSE is 
as follows, 
RMSE = 
√ √ √ √ 1 
𝑁 
𝑁 ∑
𝑖 =1 
𝑑 2 
𝑖 . (6) 
Fig. 4 shows the comparison between the two evaluation metrics. 
3.1.5. Prognostic procedure 
The ﬂow chart of the proposed prognostic method is presented in 
Fig. 5 . First, the C-MAPSS sub-datasets are pre-processed that 14 raw 
sensor measurements are selected and the corresponding data are nor- 
malized to be within the range [−1 , 1] . Then the datasets for training and 
testing are prepared with each sample containing the time sequence in- 
formation within the time window of N tw length. It should be noted that 
the normalized data, which are prepared in 2D format, are used directly 
as the model input. No hand-crafted signal processing feature is needed, 
such as skewness, kurtosis etc . Therefore, no prior expertise on prognos- 
tics and signal processing is required in the proposed method. 
Next, based on the speciﬁc signal processing problem and the dataset 
information, the proposed deep convolution neural network (DCNN) for 
RUL estimation starts to be built, and its conﬁguration is determined 
including the number of hidden layers, convolution ﬁlter number and 
length etc . The DCNN takes as the inputs the normalized training data, 
and the labeled RUL values for the training samples are used as the 
target outputs of the network. 
Back-propagation learning is used for the updates of the weights 
in the network. The Adam optimization algorithm is used with mini- 
batches for the updates. For each training epoch, the samples are ran- 
domly divided into multiple mini-batches with each batch containing 
512 samples, and put into the training system. Next, the network infor- 
mation, i.e. the weights in each layer, are optimized based on the mean 
loss function of each mini-batch. It should be noted that the selection of 
batch size aﬀects the network training performance [45] . The batch size 
of 512 samples is found appropriate based on the experiments and it is 
used in all the case studies in this paper. In addition, varying learning 
rate is adopted. For the ﬁrst 200 epochs from the beginning, the learn- 
ing rate is 0.001 for fast optimization. The learning rate of 0.0001 is 
used afterwards for stable convergence. The maximum number of the 
training epochs is 250 by default. 
5 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Fig. 5. Flow chart of the proposed method for prognostics. 
Table 2 
Default parameters of the proposed method and the experimental setting. 
Parameter Value Parameter Value 
F N 10 N tw for FD001 to FD004 30/20/30/15 
F L 10 Neurons in fully-connected layer 100 
N ft 14 Dropout rate 0.5 
R early 125 Convolution Layers 5 
Batch size 512 Epoch number 250 
Finally, the testing data samples are fed into the trained network for 
the RUL estimations, and the prognostic accuracy can be obtained. The 
default parameters of the proposed method are presented in Table 2 . 
3.1.6. Compared approaches 
The proposed deep learning framework is able to provide a system- 
atic and accurate method of prognostics. In order to show the superi- 
ority of the proposed method to existing popular methods, its testing 
performance is compared with those of other network architectures in 
this paper. Diﬀerent prognostic methods for RUL estimation are carried 
out, including basic neural network (NN), deep neural network (DNN), 
recurrent neural network (RNN) and long short-term memory (LSTM). 
1. NN 
The basic neural network, which is also known as multi-layer per- 
ceptron (MLP), is used for comparison with 1 hidden layer of 500 
neurons, that is a reasonable number in neural network-based ap- 
6 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Fig. 6. Sorted prediction for the 100 testing engine units in FD001. 
proaches. Dropout technique which can signiﬁcantly enhance the 
generalization ability of neural network is adopted, and the dropout 
rate of 0.5 is used. 
2. DNN 
The deep neural network has 4 hidden layers. The number of neu- 
rons in the hidden layers is 500, 400, 300 and 100, respectively. 
DNN shares similar depth with the proposed network and provides 
a relatively fair comparison, considering deeper architecture is usu- 
ally diﬃcult to be eﬀectively trained. Dropout is also employed in 
each hidden layer. 
3. RNN 
The recurrent neural network contains feedback connections from 
the hidden or output layers to the preceding layers [21] , thus having 
the ability of processing dynamic information. RNN is a more eﬀec- 
tive model that involves time-series data. Instead of using the convo- 
lution layers in the proposed DCNN for further feature extraction, we 
adopt 5 recurrent layers in the RNN network for comparison. In this 
way, the two methods have the same depth, and also similar compu- 
tational burden according to the experiments that will be presented 
in the following sections. A fully-connected layer is also attached in 
order to have similar architecture with the proposed method. 
4. LSTM 
Due to the vanishing gradient problem during back-propagation for 
model training, traditional RNN may not capture long-term depen- 
dencies. Therefore, as a variant of RNN, long-short term memory 
method is preferred by many researchers to prevent back-propagated 
errors from vanishing or exploding [46] . Gates are introduced in 
LSTM to enable each recurrent unit to adaptively capture dependen- 
cies of diﬀerent time scales. In order to share similar structure with 
the proposed network, 5 LSTM layers and 1 fully-connected layer 
are used for comparison. 
For all the comparing methods in this study, the input and output 
layers are the same with the proposed network, and RMSE is used as 
the loss function. Back-propagation is employed for the updates of model 
parameters where the Adam optimization algorithm is used. 
3.2. Experimental results and performance analysis 
In this section, the prognostic performance of the proposed method 
for RUL estimation is presented. The eﬀects of diﬀerent factors on the 
results are investigated, including the number of hidden layers and 
time window length. The comparisons with other popular neural net- 
work architectures are carried out to show the eﬀectiveness of the pro- 
posed structure. Furthermore, the superiority of the proposed approach 
is demonstrated by comparing with the latest state-of-the-art prognostic 
results on the same C-MAPSS dataset. 
In this paper, the reported experimental results are averaged by 10 
trials to reduce the eﬀect of randomness, and the mean values and stan- 
dard deviations are provided. All the experiments are carried out on a 
PC with Intel Core i7 CPU, 8-GB RAM and GEFORCE GTX 950M GPU. 
Fig. 7. Four examples of life-time RUL predictions for the testing engine units in FD001. 
7 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Table 3 
Performance comparisons of diﬀerent methods on the C-MAPSS dataset. STD: Standard deviation. 
NN DNN RNN LSTM DCNN 
Mean STD Mean STD Mean STD Mean STD Mean STD 
FD001 RMSE 14.80 0.31 13.56 0.21 13.44 0.43 13.52 0.61 12.61 0.19 
Score 496.3 14.3 348.3 17.5 339.2 29.0 431.7 42.4 273.7 24.1 
FD002 RMSE 25.64 0.34 24.61 0.33 24.03 0.26 24.42 0.45 22.36 0.32 
Score 18,255 1402 15,622 872 14,245 622 14,459 815 10412 544 
FD003 RMSE 15.22 0.34 13.93 0.34 13.36 0.38 13.54 0.29 12.64 0.14 
Score 522.3 17.1 364.3 19.3 315.7 24.2 347.3 28.0 284.1 26.5 
FD004 RMSE 25.80 0.44 24.31 0.24 24.02 0.41 24.21 0.36 23.31 0.39 
Score 20,422 1231 16,223 895 13,931 1102 14,322 1043 12466 853 
Fig. 8. Prognostic performance by diﬀerent methods on FD001. 
3.2.1. Prognostic performance 
The RUL prediction results of the testing engine units in FD001 re- 
garding the last recorded data point are presented in Fig. 6 . The testing 
engine units are sorted by labels from small to large for better observa- 
tion and analysis. It can be observed that the predicted RUL values by 
the proposed method are close to the actual values generally. Especially, 
the prognostic accuracy tends to be higher in the region where the RUL 
value is small. That is because when the engine unit is working close 
to failure, the fault feature is enhanced and that can be captured by the 
proposed network for better prognostics. 
Furthermore, the RUL estimations for the life-time of the testing en- 
gine units in FD001 before the last recorded cycle are shown in Fig. 7 . 
4 examples out of one hundred testing engine units, whose unit number 
are 21, 24, 34 and 81 respectively, are presented for demonstrations. 
One can notice that the RUL estimations of the last parts of the engine 
unit life-time are not shown. That is due to the fact that in the testing 
dataset, the last parts of the sensor measurements are not provided in 
order to exam the prognostic performance. The actual RUL values for 
the last recorded cycles are given in the dataset, and the corresponding 
RUL labels for the previous life-time can be obtained accordingly. 
It can be observed that in the early periods in all the 4 cases, the 
proposed method manages to estimate the RUL values as close to the 
constant R early . Afterwards, the estimations are almost linearly decreas- 
ing with time until the end of the available testing samples. Speciﬁcally, 
despite some noticeable error existing between the predictions and the 
actual RUL values in general, the prognostic accuracy is high especially 
when the engine units are close to failure. That is of industrial value 
since the late period in the engine life-time is very critical for the health 
management. A good evaluation of the engine status in the late period 
is able to enhance operation reliability and safety, reduce maintenance 
costs and improve the whole system performance. 
Fig. 9. The eﬀect of the number of convolution layers in the proposed network on the 
prognostic performance and computing time for the training process on FD001. 
Fig. 10. The eﬀect of the time window size on the prognostic performance and computing 
time for the training process on FD001. 
3.2.2. Comparing with other architectures 
The comprehensive comparison results of the prognostic perfor- 
mance using diﬀerent methods are presented in Table 3 and Fig. 8 . The 
eﬀectiveness of the proposed method is examined with the default exper- 
imental setting on the four sub-datasets. It can be observed that gener- 
ally, the proposed deep learning method achieves the best performance 
in all the cases. 
The experimental results indicate that the proposed deep convolu- 
tion neural network architecture is well suited for the prognostic prob- 
lem. The stacked convolution layers contribute to the learning capa- 
bility of the network. The RNN structure is the second best using the 
recurrent information ﬂow. While LSTM is a more advanced variant of 
RNN, its performance is not as good as RNN in this case study. How- 
ever, it can be further optimized to get better results [22,47] . The basic 
neural networks NN and DNN are also competitive. That indicates the 
8 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
Table 4 
Performance comparisons of the proposed method and the latest related papers on the C-MAPSS dataset. 
RMSE 
Method FD001 FD002 FD003 FD004 R early 
Echo state nNetwork with Kalman ﬁlter [49] 63.46 N/A N/A N/A Not applied 
Support vector machine classiﬁer [50] 29.82 N/A N/A N/A Not applied 
Random forest [29] 17.91 29.59 20.27 31.12 Not applied 
Gradient boosting [29] 15.67 29.09 16.84 29.01 Not applied 
First attempt of deep CNN [31] 18.45 30.29 19.82 29.16 Not provided 
Time window based NN [51] 15.16 N/A N/A N/A Not provided 
Multi-objective deep belief networks ensemble [29] 15.04 25.05 12.51 28.66 Not applied 
RULCLIPPER [42] 13.27 22.89 16.00 24.33 135 
LSTM [47] 12.81 N/A N/A N/A 125 
Proposed method with rectiﬁed labels 12.61 22.36 12.64 23.31 125 
Proposed method without rectiﬁed labels 13.32 24.86 14.02 29.44 Not applied 
sample preparations with raw feature selection, data pre-processing and 
application of time window are eﬃcient for further feature extraction. 
Traditionally, the DNN with 4 hidden layers suﬀer from the overﬁtting 
problem. With the help of the regularization technique, i.e. dropout, 
good prognostic performance is obtained in this study. 
Additionally, the RMSEs and scores of FD002 and FD004 are rela- 
tively higher due to the increased diﬃculties of the sub-datasets. On the 
one hand, the increased number of operating conditions and fault modes 
make the prognostic problem more complicated. On the other hand, 
overﬁtting has large opportunity to occur with the increased number of 
the engine units. 
In summary, the comparison results presented above suggest the pro- 
posed method is promising for prognostic problems and able to provide 
reliable RUL estimations in diﬀerent cases. Next, the performance anal- 
ysis of the proposed network is presented. 
3.2.3. Eﬀects of number of convolution layers and time window 
In this section, the inﬂuence of the key parameters in the proposed 
method is examined, and the sub-dataset FD001 is used for the evalua- 
tion for instance. 
Fig. 9 shows the eﬀect of the number of convolution layers on the net- 
work prognostic performance. It can be observed that generally, more 
hidden convolution layers lead to lower RMSE values. That indicates 
the deep architecture is able to capture more useful information than 
the shallow ones. On the other hand, while higher prognostic accuracy 
can be obtained by deeper structure, the computing time for the train- 
ing process increases almost linearly with the hidden layer number. It is 
noted that the network with 5 convolution layers achieves good perfor- 
mance with medium computing burden, and that is used as the default 
hidden layer number of the proposed architecture in this paper. 
Another important coeﬃcient in the proposed method is the time 
window size in the sample preparation. We present the eﬀect of the 
time window size on the network performance in Fig. 10 . It should be 
noted that in the testing set, the recorded data cycles for the testing 
engine units have diﬀerent length, and the shortest one has only 31 
cycles speciﬁcally. In order to provide a more comprehensive analysis of 
the time window, the testing engine units which have shorter recorded 
cycles than N tw are removed in the corresponding cases. 
It is clearly showed in the ﬁgure that larger time window size re- 
sults in better RUL estimations. More raw information can be covered 
by larger time window, which is the basis for further feature extraction. 
It is also observed that there is signiﬁcant reduction in RUL estimation 
error when N tw increases from 20 to 30. No remarkable further improve- 
ment in the prognostic performance is achieved when N tw exceeds 30. 
Similar with the eﬀect of the hidden layer number, the computing load 
for the training process rises as the time window size increases. In ad- 
dition, as stated previously, the presented results can not represent the 
whole testing dataset when N tw is larger than 31. However, the general 
display patterns of the time window eﬀect can be reﬂected. 
Based on the experiments and dataset information, 𝑁 𝑡𝑤 = 30 is used 
as the default setting in the sub-dataset FD001, and the values of N tw 
in the other sub-datasets can be determined accordingly. Speciﬁcally, 
since the maximum number of the record cycles in FD002, FD003 and 
FD004 are 21, 38 and 19 respectively, 𝑁 𝑡𝑤 = 20 , 30 and 15 are used for 
the sub-datasets correspondingly. 
3.2.4. Comparing with related works 
The C-MAPSS dataset used in this paper is very popular in prognostic 
researches, and many state-of-the-art results have been reported in the 
recent years. Table 4 summaries the latest research results on the four 
sub-datasets of C-MAPSS. It can be observed that many neural network- 
based approaches have shown their merits on this prognostic problem, 
including LSTM, CNN, DBN etc . 
The proposed deep learning method has achieved promising perfor- 
mance compared with the state-of-the-art results. It should be noted that 
in this paper, we artiﬁcially set an RUL threshold R early for the healthy 
condition, which has noticeable eﬀect on the experimental performance. 
The prognostic results without the threshold are also provided. Despite 
the increase of the RMSE value of the RUL estimation, the results of the 
proposed method are still competitive. On the other hand, the constant 
RUL value for the early period is widely used in the corresponding re- 
searches [2,5,42] . However, the detailed information of the threshold 
is reported in limited papers. While diﬀerent R early is employed in dif- 
ferent studies, the presented results in Table 4 are still able to provide 
general comparisons of the advanced approaches. 
In addition, while LSTM algorithm such as in [47] is usually pre- 
ferred in many tasks for sequential signal processing, its computational 
burden is relatively high with similar network depth as shown in Fig. 8 . 
The proposed method is able to achieve the prognostic results of the 
same level with LSTM, and has more simple architecture and lower com- 
puting load. Therefore, the proposed method is promising in prognostic 
tasks. 
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, a new deep learning method for prognostics is pro- 
posed based on convolution neural networks. Dropout technique is em- 
ployed to relieve overﬁtting problem. Experiments are carried out on 
the popular C-MAPSS dataset to show the eﬀectiveness of the proposed 
method. The goal of the task is to estimate the remaining useful life 
of aero-engine units accurately. With raw feature selection, data pre- 
processing and sample preparation using time window, good prognostic 
performance is achieved with the proposed method, and small error be- 
tween the prediction and the actual RUL value is obtained for the testing 
data. The RUL in the life-time of the engine units can be well predicted, 
especially for the late period close to failure. 
Based on the comparisons with other popular neural network struc- 
tures, it is noted that the proposed deep convolution architecture is well 
9 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
suited for the prognostic problem. The eﬀects of the number of hid- 
den layers and time window size on the prognostic performance are 
investigated. Considering the estimation accuracy, computing burden 
for the training process and the dataset information, the time window 
with 𝑁 𝑡𝑤 = 30 is used for the sample preparation in FD001, and ﬁve 
convolution layers are adopted in the proposed network. 
Furthermore, the prognostic results obtained by the proposed 
method are compared with the state-of-the-art results on the same 
dataset in the literature. The proposed network has shown its superiority 
on the prognostic accuracy, and is promising for industrial applications. 
Additionally, it should be noted that the data pre-processing method 
is used in this study, since normalized data facilitate the network train- 
ing process. However, in real-world online applications, the whole life- 
span data are not available. One solution for the real time application is 
that, based on the fact that the maximum and minimum values of each 
sensor measurement are close to each other for diﬀerent engine units, 
the mean values of the maximum and minimum values for each fea- 
ture in the training dataset can be directly used for the testing units for 
pre-processing. An alternative way is to adopt the batch normalization 
technique that has been widely applied in deep learning tasks in the lit- 
erature [48] . The data normalization is carried out on each hidden layer 
in the network within the mini-batch, and that is able to accelerate the 
training process. 
While good experimental results have been obtained by the proposed 
method, further architecture optimization is still necessary, since the 
current training time is longer than most shallow networks in the lit- 
erature. Deep learning methods generally suﬀer from high computing 
load, and that will be focused on in further research. In addition, the 
score function is suitable to be applied on the prognostic problem like 
the C-MAPSS dataset. Eﬀorts should be made on including the score 
function into the loss function of the neural network in the future. 
Acknowledgments 
The ﬁrst author would like to thank Dr. Wen-Qi Ren for the valu- 
able advices on this paper. The material in this paper is based on work 
supported by grant with number 02060022117047 from Northeastern 
University , and grants ( 11172197 , 11332008 , and 11572215 ) from the 
National Science Foundation of China . 
References 
[1] Azadeh A , Asadzadeh SM , Salehi N , Firoozi M . Condition-based maintenance eﬀec- 
tiveness for series-parallel power generation system - a combined Markovian simu- 
lation model. Reliabil Eng Syst Saf 2015;142:357–68 . 
[2] Zhao Z , Bin L , Wang X , Lu W . Remaining useful life prediction of aircraft engine 
based on degradation pattern learning. Reliabil Eng Syst Saf 2017;164:74–83 . 
[3] Lee J , Wu F , Zhao W , Ghaﬀari M , Liao L , Siegel D . Prognostics and health manage- 
ment design for rotary machinery systems - reviews, methodology and applications. 
Mech Syst Signal Process 2014;42(1–2):314–34 . 
[4] Pecht M , Gu J . Physics-of-failure-based prognostics for electronic products. Trans 
Inst Meas Control 2009;31(3–4):309–22 . 
[5] Heimes FO . Recurrent neural networks for remaining useful life estimation. In: Pro- 
ceedings of international conference on prognostics and health management; 2008. 
p. 1–6 . 
[6] Heng A , Zhang S , Tan ACC , Mathew J . Rotating machinery prognostics: state of the 
art, challenges and opportunities. Mech Syst Signal Process 2009;23(3):724–39 . 
[7] Qian Y , Yan R , Gao RX . A multi-time scale approach to remaining useful life predic- 
tion in rolling bearing. Mech Syst Signal Process 2017;83:549–67 . 
[8] Jouin M , Gouriveau R , Hissel D , Pra M-C , Zerhouni N . Particle ﬁlter-based prognos- 
tics: review, discussion and perspectives. Mech Syst Signal Process 2016;7273:2–31 . 
[9] Jouin M , Gouriveau R , Hissel D , Pra M-C , Zerhouni N . Degradations analysis and 
aging modeling for health assessment and prognostics of PEMFC. Reliabil Eng Syst 
Saf 2016;148:78–95 . 
[10] Ali JB , Chebel-Morello B , Saidi L , Malinowski S , Fnaiech F . Accurate bearing remain- 
ing useful life prediction based on Weibull distribution and artiﬁcial neural network. 
Mech Syst Signal Process 2015;5657:150–72 . 
[11] Gebraeel N , Lawley M , Liu R , Parmeshwaran V . Residual life predictions from vibra- 
tion-based degradation signals: a neural network approach. IEEE Trans Ind Electron 
2004;51(3):694–700 . 
[12] Benkedjouh T , Medjaher K , Zerhouni N , Rechak S . Remaining useful life estimation 
based on nonlinear feature reduction and support vector regression. Eng Appl Artif 
Intell 2013;26(7):1751–60 . 
[13] Dong M , He D . A segmental hidden semi-Markov model (HSMM)-based diag- 
nostics and prognostics framework and methodology. Mech Syst Signal Process 
2007;21(5):2248–66 . 
[14] Baraldi P , Compare M , Sauco S , Zio E . Ensemble neural network-based particle ﬁl- 
tering for prognostics. Mech Syst Signal Process 2013;41(1–2):288–300 . 
[15] Sikorska JZ , Hodkiewicz M , Ma L . Prognostic modelling options for remaining useful 
life estimation by industry. Mech Syst Signal Process 2011;25(5):1803–36 . 
[16] Huang R , Xi L , Li X , Liu CR , Qiu H , Lee J . Residual life predictions for ball bearings 
based on self-organizing map and back propagation neural network methods. Mech 
Syst Signal Process 2007;21(1):193–207 . 
[17] Tian Z . An artiﬁcial neural network method for remaining useful life prediction of 
equipment subject to condition monitoring. J Intell Manuf 2012;23(2):227–37 . 
[18] Fink O , Zio E , Weidmann U . Predicting component reliability and level of degrada- 
tion with complex-valued neural networks. Reliabil Eng Syst Saf 2014;121:198–206 . 
[19] Khawaja T , Vachtsevanos G , Wu B . Reasoning about uncertainty in prognosis: a 
conﬁdence prediction neural network approach. In: Proceedings of Annual Meeting 
of the North American Fuzzy Information Processing Society; 2005. p. 7–12 . 
[20] Wang WQ , Golnaraghi MF , Ismail F . Prognosis of machine health condition using 
neuro-fuzzy systems. Mech Syst Signal Process 2004;18(4):813–31 . 
[21] Malhi A , Yan R , Gao RX . Prognosis of defect propagation based on recurrent neural 
networks. IEEE Trans Instrum Meas 2011;60(3):703–11 . 
[22] Yuan M , Wu Y , Lin L . Fault diagnosis and remaining useful life estimation of aero 
engine using LSTM neural network. In: Proceedings of IEEE International Conference 
on Aircraft Utility Systems; 2016. p. 135–40 . 
[23] Zhao R , Wang J , Yan R , Mao K . Machine health monitoring with LSTM networks. In: 
Proceedings of 10th International Conference on Sensing Technology; 2016. p. 1–6 . 
[24] Hinton GE , Salakhutdinov RR . Reducing the dimensionality of data with neural net- 
works. Science 2006;313(5786):504 . 
[25] Krizhevsky A , Sutskever I , Hinton GE . ImageNet classiﬁcation with deep convolu- 
tional neural networks. In: Proceedings of 26th Annual Conference on Neural Infor- 
mation Processing Systems, 2; 2012. p. 1097–105 . 
[26] Hinton GE , Deng L , Yu D , Dahl G , Mohamed AR , Jaitly N , et al. Deep neural net- 
works for acoustic modeling in speech recognition: the shared views of four research 
groups. IEEE Signal Process Mag 2012;29(6):82–97 . 
[27] Ren L , Cui J , Sun Y , Cheng X . Multi-bearing remaining useful life collaborative pre- 
diction: a deep learning approach. J Manuf Syst 2017;43, Part 2:248–56 . 
[28] Liao L , Jin W , Pavel R . Enhanced restricted boltzmann machine with prognosabil- 
ity regularization for prognostics and health assessment. IEEE Trans Ind Electron 
2016;63(11):7076–83 . 
[29] Zhang C , Lim P , Qin AK , Tan KC . Multiobjective deep belief networks ensemble for 
remaining useful life estimation in prognostics. IEEE Trans Neural Netw Learn Syst 
2016;PP(99):1–13 . 
[30] Saxena A , Goebel K , Simon D , Eklund N . Damage propagation modeling for air- 
craft engine run-to-failure simulation. In: Proceedings of International Conference 
on Prognostics and Health Management; 2008. p. 1–9 . 
[31] Babu GS , Zhao P , Li X-L . Deep convolutional neural network based regression ap- 
proach for estimation of remaining useful life. In: Database systems for advanced 
applications: 21st international conference. Cham: Springer International Publish- 
ing; 2016. p. 214–28 . 
[32] Xu J , Wang Y , Xu L . PHM-oriented integrated fusion prognostics for aircraft engines 
based on sensor data. IEEE Sensors J 2014;14(4):1124–32 . 
[33] Abdel-Hamid O , Mohamed A , Hui J , Penn G . Applying convolutional neural net- 
works concepts to hybrid NN-HMM model for speech recognition. In: Proceedings 
of IEEE international conference on acoustics, speech and signal processing; 2012. 
p. 4277–80 . 
[34] Szegedy C , Liu W , Yangqing J , Sermanet P , Reed S , Anguelov D , et al. Going deeper 
with convolutions. In: Proceedings of IEEE conference on computer vision and pat- 
tern recognition; 2015. p. 1–9 . 
[35] Ren W , Liu S , Zhang H , Pan J , Cao X , Yang M-H . Single image dehazing via multi- 
-scale convolutional neural networks. In: European conference on computer vision. 
Cham: Springer International Publishing; 2016. p. 154–69 . 
[36] Sun W , Shao S , Zhao R , Yan R , Zhang X , Chen X . A sparse auto-encoder-based 
deep neural network approach for induction motor faults classiﬁcation. Measure- 
ment 2016;89:171–8 . 
[37] Liu B , Liu J , Bai X , Lu H . Regularized hierarchical feature learning with non-negative 
sparsity and selectivity for image classiﬁcation. In: Proceedings of 22nd Int Conf 
Pattern Recognit; 2014. p. 4293–8 . 
[38] Glorot X , Bengio Y . Understanding the diﬃculty of training deep feedforward neural 
networks. J Mach Learn Res 2010;9:249–56 . 
[39] Rumelhart DE , Hinton GE , Williams RJ . Learning representations by back-propagat- 
ing errors. Nature 1986;323(6088):533–6 . 
[40] Kingma D., Ba J.. Adam: a method for stochastic optimization. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:14126980 2014;. 
[41] Saxena A, Goebel K. Turbofan engine degradation simulation data set. NASA Ames 
Prognostics Data Repository. Moﬀett Field, CA: NASA Ames Research Center; 2008 . 
( http://tiarcnasagov/project/prognostic-data-repository ) 
[42] Ramasso E . Investigating computational geometry for failure prognostics. Int J Prog- 
nostics Health Manage 2014;5(1):005 . 
[43] Coble JB , Hines JW . Prognostic algorithm categorization with PHM challenge appli- 
cation. In: Proceedings of international conference on prognostics and health man- 
agement; 2008. p. 1–11 . 
[44] Wang P , Youn BD , Hu C . A generic probabilistic framework for structural 
health prognostics and uncertainty management. Mech Syst Signal Process 
2012;28:622–37 . 
[45] Guo X , Chen L , Shen C . Hierarchical adaptive deep convolution neural network and 
its application to bearing fault diagnosis. Measurement 2016;93:490–502 . 
10 
X. Li et al. Reliability Engineering and System Safety 172 (2018) 1–11 
[46] Guo L , Li N , Jia F , Lei Y , Lin J . A recurrent neural network based health indicator 
for remaining useful life prediction of bearings. Neurocomputing 2017;240:98–109 . 
[47] Malhotra P., TV V., Ramakrishnan A., Anand G., Vig L., Agarwal P., et al. Multi- 
sensor prognostics using an unsupervised health index based on LSTM encoder- 
decoder. arXiv preprint arXiv:160806154 2016;. 
[48] Ioﬀe S , Szegedy C . Batch normalization: Accelerating deep network training by re- 
ducing internal covariate shift. In: Proceedings of 32nd International Conference on 
Machine Learning, 1; 2015. p. 448–56 . Lile, France 
[49] Peng Y , Wang H , Wang J , Liu D , Peng X . A modiﬁed echo state network based 
remaining useful life estimation approach. In: Proceedings of IEEE Conference on 
Prognostics and Health Management; 2012. p. 1–7 . 
[50] Louen C , Ding SX , Kandler C . A new framework for remaining useful life estima- 
tion using support vector machine classiﬁer. In: Proceedings of IEEE Conference on 
Control and Fault-Tolerant Systems; 2013. p. 228–33 . 
[51] Lim P , Goh CK , Tan KC . A time window neural network based framework for re- 
maining useful life estimation. In: Proceedings of International Joint Conference on 
Neural Networks; 2016. p. 1746–53 . 
11 